Voluntarily coming from his diplomatic post in Mexico, New York's former mayoral
Dwyer is another witness in these hearings to discover the extent of gangster influence
in politics.
The committee wants some facts about an alleged murderer who escaped prosecution, although
there was a purpy case for indictment against him.
It's very evident that in your opinion, Anastasia was one of the highest in command of this
notorious outfit.
He was entrusted with all the murders, official murders of theirs, committed by the Brooklyn
group, no matter where they were committed.
And over what period of time were you in office after his indictment was returned?
It was never in doubt.
I mean, after the action was taken, there the investigation was made.
I was two and a half years in office, but it could have possibly been many months less
than that, but we're thoroughly understood.
The picture.
Well, the question that possibly might occur to the minds of some is whether or not there
is any explanation for the fact that proceedings were not pursued prior to your leaving the
office with the knowledge that you had against him.
Yes.
There's a very good explanation of that.
There's a factual explanation.
The facts speak for themselves.
That in this state you cannot convict any person of a crime on the unsupported testimony
of a co-conspirator.
Gentlemen, I like you to remember that because that's a principle of law in this state that
gives us a lot of trouble.
That's a principle of law in this state that let Anna Stachier get away.
Believe me, if we could have convicted any one of these people on the unsupported testimony
of co-conspirators, would have been able to send every one of them.
Certainly indict them.
Of course, I wouldn't suggest that an indictment what the...
Yes, sir.
I'm not going Mr. Mayor to heaven, sir.
The story to the Anna Stachier case is that not a fact that you made the comment at about
that time that the police had a perfect case murder in the first degree against Mr.
Anna Stachier.
For indictment.
For indictment?
Yes, sir.
Well, why would you say that if you knew you didn't have the evidence to give her two witnesses?
I've come to that later, but I'll answer the question now.
I wish you would.
I had the witnesses, but I didn't have Anna Stachier.
And what is the other witness, Reles?
Reles?
Oh, I had more than Reles.
What was Reles an important witness?
Reles was the one witness who was not involved in the crime.
But he didn't know about it in your judgment.
And that's...
I depended on Reles at the independent...
And that's why he was locked up in the hotel.
The hotel, was that it?
Not for that one case alone, but that is why he was in the hotel.
And you know familiar with the facts about his death?
I am.
And what's your version of it?
That he tried to escape.
That he tried to escape?
Yes, sir.
Then your testimony, the testimony of Mr. Balls, was before the other day who stayed
just now, is that he didn't try to escape.
That he rigged together the sheet and the wire, and let himself out the window
with the intention of grinding in the floor below and coming up and tapping on the door
and say, Tika-boo, I'm back again.
I've got it.
You knew that, didn't you?
Why, how could anyone tell what was in Reles' mind?
Well, that's what we want to know.
Of course, it's ridiculous, of course.
Well, I couldn't tell what was in his mind.
Oh, I know that there was the rope from there, was the sheet.
And there was the window underneath, which he could reach, and it slipped, and he fell
and was killed, and what he was trying to do.
We'll never be known.
When did the perfect case become an infurfication, how?
When Reles died.
And he was the only witness that you needed to confirm somebody's health's testimony.
The only witness that I had.
Only had.
That was independent truth.
I see.
So when Reles died for done, when Reles passed on, then you lost the most valuable witness
you could have to get a conviction of anesthesia, that right?
That is right.
Therefore, that didn't mean that there was another evidence.
Yes, I understand.
But didn't your mind, or did your mind, then turn upon the cause of the labor, and wonder
who were the accessories either before or after the fact that made Reles part this life.
And on that basis, I might add before you answer it, opinions differ.
So from the important witnesses, as to how Mr. Reles departed this life, and why, you
have one opinion, and I have another.
Mr. Balls had two or three, he has expressed his different times, and but we know he's
dead.
Now, therefore, wasn't that worth the greatest endeavor in the world to find out who was
culpable in reducing Miss Man Reles to a corpse, so the evidence could solve the window
and you can't prosecute the match.
I know, at the time, what the medical examiner said.
I knew what he said was the cause of death.
What was that?
Far.
At all.
Did you see the body?
No, sir.
Were there any marks on it's your knowledge, the bullet shots on stabs and duck?
Why the medical examiner's are proof of that?
Yeah.
Did anybody testify to besides the medical examiner?
No, sir.
I asked to that, I said no.
Don't the police usually go and look at the corpse after the medical examiner's while he's
examining it?
I've been 40 years in this city, and I never did see the police or anyone else do anything
but identify the body, and the responsibility for stating the cause of death is only
on one man.
So that's the medical examiner?
If my body's found out here in Foli Square, or clothed and I'm taken to the morgue and
the police suspect that some of these gangsters murdered Charles Toby, then all that would
happen would be the morgue, would have my body, the medical examiner examined it, and
certified death by such such a thing.
But no member of the police had detected a squad of the b-there to confirm the sight
of the body and whether or not to have produced some of the cause of death, they're merely
falling out of the car.
Is that right?
Presenting what he considers a reflection on the medical examiner's honesty, the witness
clashes with Senator Toby.
That is precisely the annual window and I say it's unfair.
Well, as a joke, they have been fixed on history.
That's unfair.
And if you see this way, go to your man-balls and correct his mind.
These are the matter fixed.
My man-balls?
Yeah, your man-you appointed.
You as a member of the police.
Yeah, you appointed it.
My man.
The more than he is, you're appointed, didn't you?
Of course.
The official squad hit of it.
That's right.
Ditterness that leads to a sharp exchange about an alleged contribution from New York to
Senator Toby's political campaign fund.
And your dog, now where it came from?
I didn't send down his New York for a single dollar.
You called up?
I did not.
Well, now, would you like to go under that?
Yes, I would.
All right.
Now, challenge you.
All right, is there a Mr. Rosenblatt in the room?
Is there a Mr. Rosenblatt here?
There was an authorization down here that went out to beat Pat McCarran and Nevada, and
they supported you.
And the story that is circulated down here is that you called up in the long distance
telephone to get the help and that you got money.
Well, it's not true.
I never called anybody from New York for contributions to my campaign.
All right, I'm on the rope and you're in that, sir.
Well, I'll take the oath right now.
You'll give it, Mr. Chairman.
I hate a full flesher.
Next day, Old wire produces the letter on which he based his observation about the funds
in question.
Admitting it was merely a common expression of gratitude, free of any suggestion of political
chicaneery.
This really is making a big point over a colloquial that started in the heat of passion.
There's nothing to it.
Senator Keephober, after reading the letter, agrees with the ambassador on the innocence
of the message.
And Senator Toby is placated, thanking both for giving Mr. Witness and to the distinguished
Chairman of this committee, for clearing the air of this sub-defeuge.
I'm a free man, and I'm willing anything I ever did.
I'll say it, I'll roll to stand the light of day to anybody, friend of all I like.
So I welcome these things and pass them on.
Let's get on with the hearing.
Aper.
The brother of Albert Anastasia, Anthony, came before the committee in New York with some
revealing answers to the investigators' questions.
Now give your full name, Anthony Anastasia, and your address, 167 Union Street.
How long have you lived there?
By 11, 12 years.
What do you do for a living?
Long with Shonen, Steve, though.
How long have you been engaged in that?
Since I remember, sir.
Do you know a police officer named Winkelman of the Elizabeth Police?
Maybe if I see, sir.
Don't you know him by name, the man to whom I'm referring?
I can't recall, sir.
You said that you never had theodore Narecheph arrested.
I'd like to ask you if he had you arrested.
I do believe so.
You do?
What was the outcome of the case?
The case was on the front of the jury and I come out of the prison.
Officer Winkelman of the Elizabeth Force Testifier for you?
Force Testifier?
No, I say of the Elizabeth Police that he testified for you.
I do believe so.
But why did you doubt that you knew him and the man to go and I asked you if you had...
Well, you could have called a minor, but the case I remember...
You knew what I was going to ask you about him.
But you do know now who I mean.
What's the one policeman who testified for me, sir?
Yes, but Officer, and you don't know that his name was Winkelman?
The Alibi, didn't you?
I think you're pun.
What did he testify to?
How did you come to have him testify for you?
Show me a lawyer, sir.
Show your lawyer.
You gave your lawyers his name?
No, sir.
How did your lawyers know to get him to testify for you if you didn't give him the information?
My lawyer got to Elizabeth.
They knew where to go to get somebody for you.
No, sir.
All right.
Did your brother make his money in your...
A steve-during company?
Little bit.
How much?
Solid.
Hmm?
What was his salary?
I believe it was under 141,000 that light.
$100,000, $100,000, $90,000.
I don't want to lie to you.
I know you used to take your salary, sir.
About $100,000, $100,000 a week.
But $29,000, $100,000, someone there yet.
And, uh, like that, sir.
Do you ever hear that the house out at Palisades
that belongs to your brother is worth an excess of $70,000?
Never, sir.
What do you think it's worth?
$65, $66,000, $65,000.
LAUGHTER
After that, the committee became interested in the manner in which the witness got his naturalization
papers to become a citizen of the United States.
Senator O'Connor was the questioner.
This is the exchange as recorded by the Moteton-U sound camera.
It was jumping ship.
I don't believe the system.
You do believe so.
And if you didn't put that in, then you made a false application.
All right, don't believe it.
You believe you put in.
But now, suppose you didn't put it in, wouldn't that be a false application?
Yes, sir.
It would be.
If that's true, then, you're a fit subject for deportation.
And maybe those who pulled your card out, or otherwise, uh, didn't succeed after all,
maybe in holding you over here too long.
At another session of the crime probe, Ambassador O'Duire was again a witness.
This time to vigorously deny that he accepted $10,000 from a fireman's representative.
It's utterly fantastic, he told reporters.
John J. Moran, a deputy fire commissioner under O'Duire, also denied receiving large sums
from the same source, though admitting $500 for benefit tickets.
Then the investigators heard John P. Crane, president of the Uniformed Fireman's Association,
explored this political bombshell naming O'Duire and Moran.
I told him, Mayor, at that time, that, uh, I had promised him the support of the fireman,
and I offered him some evidence of that support on the occasion in a form of $10,000.
And, uh, was that in cash?
I wasn't cash.
Was that a loot or a, in a, uh, packet?
I had it, and, uh, I could never describe the envelope.
I don't know the technical word, but it was a rate, this type of envelope,
they have right there, the brown one.
Oh, was it just about the size of the envelope that I'm just going to send it envelope?
I rate $10.
And, um, did he say anything?
He psyched me.
He didn't look in the envelope or anything else.
How long were you there?
Now, more than 10 minutes.
Did you make any other contributions, uh, to anyone else in the, uh, campaign of 1949?
Did you make any to Mr. Moran?
Oh, yes.
And, uh, what contributions did you make to him?
I made $2,000, $10,000 contribution to him between that time and between election day.
And, uh, was they also in cash?
Yes, sir.
And, where did you give them to Mr. Moran?
He gave one behind him in this book, building on his way home one night.
Oh, one day I gave one on his office.
Does that make it total of $55,000?
So, $55,000.
James Moran got from you.
That was a, I'd say that you think Mr. Moran's a good man and has helped you fire him.
I'm going to say this, that what the fine man has to put up with,
forget adjustments in salary and everything else that everyone else is getting,
is absolutely a disgrace.
Well, that's a crime.
I agree with you.
I did wrong.
But the point I make is, this is the picture.
Here's the people of the city of New York, New Jersey of them,
their taxpayers, their tax to support a police department,
and their fire department to protect them from the criminal element and their ravages of fire.
And their officials have paid a good salary and they're on the job for Bono Public Old.
Now it develops, but this man's second in charge of the fire department.
He paid $55,000 to get goodwill.
It ought to be an automatic thing with him, hasn't it?
I've been forthcoming without any, for your dollars, isn't it?
He ought to do this thing, justice for the fireman shouldn't he?
I, I am sure Mr. Moran did.
But when you have pressure groups in opposition, such as you must know about coming from Washington, Mr. Senator,
it takes a man of tremendous courage to go out and stand up to them.
Well, when such a man is just signed for him,
they'll pull the law and to serve the public and there can be no greater cause than that.
Yet these immense sums, to some of us immense sums, were spent and you.
And I tell you something, think about in America, and it's about time we woke up.
And instead of causing down this investigation of this crime committee,
on the evidence giving here today, they ought to be renewed and carried on all the way down through.
The scene shifted to Washington, DC, after the sensational disclosures at the New York investigation,
and the chamber was packed for the resumption of the hearings.
The national standing of the probe, resulting in Senator Wiley appearing on the stand
with Senator Kefauber and with Senator O'Connor, Senator Hunt,
all were hopeful of hearing testimony by Jacob Gusik, a witness from Chicago considered important.
But Gusik disappointed by declaring he would refuse to answer any questions whatsoever.
In other words, any kind of a question about any subject you're going to refuse to answer.
And it doesn't matter what the nature of the question is or what it relates to, is that correct?
All right.
You will resident of Chicago.
Now, it seems to answer that.
How long have you lived in Chicago?
It seems to answer that.
I want to remind you, I claim the same privilege to have you answer.
In other words, your statement applies to all of these questions from the start to finish.
It is therefore the decision of the committee that this witness
be continued under Sipina, that he be remanded to the custody of the sergeant arms of the Senate,
that he be required to remain under the Sipina and to reappear before this committee on Friday,
March 30th at 10am.
He will be kept in custody and it is the decision of the committee that he may obtain his release only upon
having placed under bond in the amount of $10,000.
What can I make the bond?
Well, you will be get sufficient advice from the representative of the sergeant arms.
Captain Down.
The who?
Concluding this remarkable newsreo document, Chairman Kippover asked the local public to carry on.
As matters now stand, I have great conviction and a very firm belief.
At the people in local sections appreciate the conditions that are going on.
They realize that what we have found in one city can be duplicated and usually exist in another city of the same population.
The conditions we have found in one area are usually the same conditions that can be found in another.
So in the final analysis, it is the interest and the action of the local people that is going to whip organized crime in the country today.
I believe they have been aroused. I think they know the facts and I believe that the people and not the Congress of the federal government will do the job.